docs/starter-kit-apis/passports/passports_test_dataset.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Starter Kit Passport Test Dataset

The Starter Kit Passport docker image comes prebundled with a test dataset. The test dataset will be served via the Passport broker if no overriding database connection is provided. In this section we will confirm that we can execute HTTP requests to a running Starter Kit Passport service and receive the expected response.

## Test HTTP Requests

Using your preferred API testing tool (e.g. Postman), issue the following HTTP request for the service info endpoint.
```
GET http://localhost:4500/ga4gh/passport/v1/service-info
```

You should receive a response with a status of `200`, and a response body containing information about the service according to the Service Info standard:
```
{
    "id": "org.ga4gh.starterkit.passport.broker",
    "name": "GA4GH Starter Kit Passport Broker Service",
    "description": "Starter Kit implementation of a Passport Broker service, outlined in the GA4GH Passports specification. Manages researcher permissions to data and compute, and enables this information to be minted as JWTs and passed to downstream clearinghouses.",
    "contactUrl": "mailto:info@ga4gh.org",
    "documentationUrl": "https://github.com/ga4gh/ga4gh-starter-kit-passport-broker",
    "createdAt": "2022-04-28T09:00:00Z",
    "updatedAt": "2022-04-28T09:00:00Z",
    "environment": "test",
    "version": "0.0.2",
    "type": {
        "group": "org.ga4gh",
        "artifact": "passport-broker",
        "version": "1.0.0"
    },
    "organization": {
        "name": "Global Alliance for Genomics and Health",
        "url": "https://ga4gh.org"
    }
}
```

## Test Datasets

The list of Visas in the DB can be displayed by using a GET request

```
GET http://localhost:4501/admin/ga4gh/passport/v1/visas
```

You should see a response similar to the one below with a list of Visas that are currently in the broker. 

```
[
    {
        "id": "670cc2e7-9a9c-4273-9334-beb40d364e5c",
        "visaName": "StarterKitDatasetsControlledAccessGrants",
        "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
        "visaDescription": "Controlled access dev datasets for the GA4GH Starter Kit",
        "visaSecret": "87A3B5D68FD88197254D9889B4AAB"
    },
    {
        "id": "39e6e359-e8da-4193-92cc-2eed421fe729",
        "visaName": "DatasetAlpha",
        "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
        "visaDescription": "First simulated dataset controlled by GA4GH",
        "visaSecret": "BF4BF43A157FB51B49F7AE13B7216"
    },
    {
        "id": "51db203b-ed6e-4de8-b196-011cae5cea15",
        "visaName": "DatasetBeta",
        "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
        "visaDescription": "Second simulated dataset controlled by GA4GH",
        "visaSecret": "C5911B4A7BC2B343C6B7C55FED19D"
    },
    {
        "id": "4ed80481-dd73-4984-bee5-8e811a330102",
        "visaName": "DatasetGamma",
        "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
        "visaDescription": "Third simulated dataset controlled by GA4GH",
        "visaSecret": "6893F3226CF379E52281CCB4584F7"
    }
]
```

You can further look into a specific visa by making a GET request to the visa

```
GET http://localhost:4501/admin/ga4gh/passport/v1/visas/670cc2e7-9a9c-4273-9334-beb40d364e5c
```

The response should look similar to the response shown below

```
{
    "id": "670cc2e7-9a9c-4273-9334-beb40d364e5c",
    "visaName": "StarterKitDatasetsControlledAccessGrants",
    "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
    "visaDescription": "Controlled access dev datasets for the GA4GH Starter Kit",
    "visaSecret": "87A3B5D68FD88197254D9889B4AAB",
    "passportVisaAssertions": [
        {
            "status": "active",
            "assertedAt": 1652187600,
            "passportUser": {
                "id": "85ff5a54-48b9-4294-a91d-2be50bd2a77d"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

You can also request the list of users in the broker 

```
GET http://localhost:4501/admin/ga4gh/passport/v1/users
```

and further request the information on the visas a user has using
```
GET http://localhost:4501/admin/ga4gh/passport/v1/users/<USER_ID>
```

To assign a new visa to a user you will need to make a put request
```
http://localhost:4501/admin/ga4gh/passport/v1/users/<USER_ID>
```
In headers, include a key Content-Type with value application/json. In the body include a JSON object with two keys, first the "id" which should be the users ID as a string, and "passportVisaAssertions" which will be an array of visas. Make sure to replace the USER_ID with the real value. See an example body below:
```
{
    "id": "<USER_ID>",
    "passportVisaAssertions": [
        {
            "status": "active",
            "passportVisa": {
                "id": "670cc2e7-9a9c-4273-9334-beb40d364e5c",
                "visaName": "StarterKitDatasetsControlledAccessGrants",
                "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
                "visaDescription": "Controlled access dev datasets for the GA4GH Starter Kit"
            }
        },
        {
            "status": "active",
            "passportVisa": {
                "id": "39e6e359-e8da-4193-92cc-2eed421fe729",
                "visaName": "DatasetAlpha",
                "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
                "visaDescription": "First simulated dataset controlled by GA4GH"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

Commit message:

adding details to the test dataset page

docs/starter-kit-apis/passports/passports_test_dataset.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Starter Kit Passport Test Dataset

The Starter Kit Passport docker image comes prebundled with a test dataset. The test dataset will be served via the Passport broker if no overriding database connection is provided. In this section we will confirm that we can execute HTTP requests to a running Starter Kit Passport service and receive the expected response.

## Test HTTP Requests

Using your preferred API testing tool (e.g. Postman), issue the following HTTP request for the service info endpoint.
```
GET http://localhost:4500/ga4gh/passport/v1/service-info
```

You should receive a response with a status of `200`, and a response body containing information about the service according to the Service Info standard:
```
{
    "id": "org.ga4gh.starterkit.passport.broker",
    "name": "GA4GH Starter Kit Passport Broker Service",
    "description": "Starter Kit implementation of a Passport Broker service, outlined in the GA4GH Passports specification. Manages researcher permissions to data and compute, and enables this information to be minted as JWTs and passed to downstream clearinghouses.",
    "contactUrl": "mailto:info@ga4gh.org",
    "documentationUrl": "https://github.com/ga4gh/ga4gh-starter-kit-passport-broker",
    "createdAt": "2022-04-28T09:00:00Z",
    "updatedAt": "2022-04-28T09:00:00Z",
    "environment": "test",
    "version": "0.0.2",
    "type": {
        "group": "org.ga4gh",
        "artifact": "passport-broker",
        "version": "1.0.0"
    },
    "organization": {
        "name": "Global Alliance for Genomics and Health",
        "url": "https://ga4gh.org"
    }
}
```

## Visas in the Passport Broker

The list of Visas in the DB can be displayed by using a GET request

```
GET http://localhost:4501/admin/ga4gh/passport/v1/visas
```

You should see a response similar to the one below with a list of Visas that are currently in the broker. 

```
[
    {
        "id": "670cc2e7-9a9c-4273-9334-beb40d364e5c",
        "visaName": "StarterKitDatasetsControlledAccessGrants",
        "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
        "visaDescription": "Controlled access dev datasets for the GA4GH Starter Kit",
        "visaSecret": "87A3B5D68FD88197254D9889B4AAB"
    },
    {
        "id": "39e6e359-e8da-4193-92cc-2eed421fe729",
        "visaName": "DatasetAlpha",
        "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
        "visaDescription": "First simulated dataset controlled by GA4GH",
        "visaSecret": "BF4BF43A157FB51B49F7AE13B7216"
    },
    {
        "id": "51db203b-ed6e-4de8-b196-011cae5cea15",
        "visaName": "DatasetBeta",
        "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
        "visaDescription": "Second simulated dataset controlled by GA4GH",
        "visaSecret": "C5911B4A7BC2B343C6B7C55FED19D"
    },
    {
        "id": "4ed80481-dd73-4984-bee5-8e811a330102",
        "visaName": "DatasetGamma",
        "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
        "visaDescription": "Third simulated dataset controlled by GA4GH",
        "visaSecret": "6893F3226CF379E52281CCB4584F7"
    }
]
```

You can further look into a specific visa by making a GET request to the visa

```
GET http://localhost:4501/admin/ga4gh/passport/v1/visas/670cc2e7-9a9c-4273-9334-beb40d364e5c
```

The response should look similar to the response shown below

```
{
    "id": "670cc2e7-9a9c-4273-9334-beb40d364e5c",
    "visaName": "StarterKitDatasetsControlledAccessGrants",
    "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
    "visaDescription": "Controlled access dev datasets for the GA4GH Starter Kit",
    "visaSecret": "87A3B5D68FD88197254D9889B4AAB",
    "passportVisaAssertions": [
        {
            "status": "active",
            "assertedAt": 1652187600,
            "passportUser": {
                "id": "85ff5a54-48b9-4294-a91d-2be50bd2a77d"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

## Users in the Passport Broker

To create a new user, go to http://127.0.0.1:4455/welcome to enter the welcome page.
Towards the bottom, under Account Management press Sign Up to create an account.
After signing up, you should see your account information on the welcome page, under User Information.

Once the sign up is complete, a user in the passport broker service will also be created. Confirm the new user is created:

You can also request the list of users in the broker 

```
GET http://localhost:4501/admin/ga4gh/passport/v1/users
```
## Check the Visas of a User

You can further request information on the visas a specific user has by running the search below with the USER_ID replaced by the targeted user ID
```
GET http://localhost:4501/admin/ga4gh/passport/v1/users/<USER_ID>
```

## Assigning New Visas to a User

To assign a new visa to a user you will need to make a put request
```
http://localhost:4501/admin/ga4gh/passport/v1/users/<USER_ID>
```
In headers, include a key Content-Type with value application/json. In the body include a JSON object with two keys, first the "id" which should be the users ID as a string, and "passportVisaAssertions" which will be an array of visas. Make sure to replace the USER_ID with the real value. See an example body below:
```
{
    "id": "<USER_ID>",
    "passportVisaAssertions": [
        {
            "status": "active",
            "passportVisa": {
                "id": "670cc2e7-9a9c-4273-9334-beb40d364e5c",
                "visaName": "StarterKitDatasetsControlledAccessGrants",
                "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
                "visaDescription": "Controlled access dev datasets for the GA4GH Starter Kit"
            }
        },
        {
            "status": "active",
            "passportVisa": {
                "id": "39e6e359-e8da-4193-92cc-2eed421fe729",
                "visaName": "DatasetAlpha",
                "visaIssuer": "https://datasets.starterkit.ga4gh.org/",
                "visaDescription": "First simulated dataset controlled by GA4GH"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

## Getting a Passport JWT (Json Web Token)

Back in the [welcome page](http://127.0.0.1:4455/welcome) press [Get Passport Token](http://127.0.0.1:4455/passport). On this page you should see your assigned visas, if no visas are assigned please look at the previous step. Select some visas, and then press Get Passport Token.

You can confirm the validity of your JWT token by visiting https://jwt.io/ and pasting the JWT token to examine its contents.
